TODO for Flightgear Saab 37 Viggen
==================================


Features and improvements:
--------------------------
GUI: Improve Checklists.
GUI: Option to switch off hitting stuff above ground. (switched off now, might confuse users)
Aero: Make recoil not assume that FDM rate is 120 Hz.
Aero: Tune speedbrake better.
Aero: Remove speedbrake in JA and AJS. Only AJ should have it.
Aero: Make cannon ammo have pointweight.
Aero: Adjust wave drag so max speed is M1.85 in ISA atmosphere and M2.03 in ISA-15.
Control: Disable failure system from freezing surfaces (remove failure mode bug in 3.2- prevents)
Control: Make bigger factor in pitch normal comparison. (beware of oscillations)
Control: Limit elevator deflection due to servo-moment being smaller than moment of air-pressure. Page 19-20 in AK III.
Model: JA version of nav. panel.
Model: Transponder panel more like the real, right panel.
Model: Make stick from throttle to gears handle housing. The throttle is too wide and the sidepanel is not aligned with X axis, that prevents it.
Model: Improve texturing of gears handle housing, it had some details on it.
Model: JA version of radar control stick.
Model: Airspeed indicator should have mach number also.
Model: The KURS gauge in the JA was more complex.
Model: The reserve generator. (ram air turbine)
Model: Model speedbrakes.
Model: Chair specific to Viggen.
Model: Side position lights.
Model: Flightstick specific to Viggen.
Model: Make minimal polygon model for multiplayer LOD.
Model: Make liveries that is not 59, able to not have to use base texture.
Model: Ext. power truck more mil style textures.
Model: Put in more working instruments and controls.
Model: Put in not-working instruments and controls for immersion.
Model: Some control textures should be aligned so they can be better viewed from current pilot point of view.
Model: AJ radar range control should be only 3 digits. (and be another place in the cockpit if should be accurate)
Model: Make the tooltips fail when gauges fail.
Model: Proper floor in the cockpit.
Model: Fix z-fighting on HUD brightness-knob, datapanel knob, M71-rail and M90. (strange, might not be z-fighting, but sure looks like it)
Model: A/P control in cockpit: A/T on throttle, A/P disengage on stick.
Model: Stores jettisoned indicator on top right of front panel. (AJ)
Model: Switch ALT CISI, altitude source. (Only in AJ variants)
Animation: Review all indicator lights. For example the A/T light should blink by malfunctions or disengagements.
Animation: Make rear boogie rotate at takeoff/landing rotation.
Animation: Make jettison drop-tank actually fall down like other stores do.
Engine: Switch aug. type in engine?
Engine: Model compressor surge/stall including bang sound.
Sim: Improve autopilot further.
Sim: Make autopilot depend fully on instrument properties not true properties. (95% done)
Sim: Implement ejection seat. (with parachute?)
Sim: Reset controls after A/P let go of them.
Sim: Make verbose property to be used in all nasal scripts. (possible include in options)
Sim: Make replay show the guided missiles flying.
Sim: Improve terrain warning system.
Sim: Replace all generic setValue in nasal with specific types.
Sim: Make droptank do collision detection. (use retractable)
Sim: Lock warning when another plane get radar lock. (ja37, m2000-5, f-14b, f-15)
Sim: Complete hydraulic dependencies: Brakes.
Sim: Hydraulic drain.
Sim: Electric drain.
Sim: Shift-m should be a key without shift instead for convenience.
Sim: Specific damage to gears in crash code, speed of impact and vertical speed separate. (terrain type?)
Sim: Make data-link between Viggens.
Sim: Replace MP hit and fire messages with something else, so can leave civilian traffic in peace.
Sim: Implement maximum speed reactions - Vne.
Sim: Engine fire improvement: reduced thrust, stuck throttle.
Sim: Stop auto-selecting when in tactical mode. (semi-done)
Sim: Make speed, roll, Nz and altitude limits on firing missiles.
Sim: Find the exact spot the center M70 fires from (submodels).
Sim: A/P does auto trim of roll.
Sim: Review A/P working property use. Also in jsb for stick control.
Sim: Make schedule for max climb rate with A/P at slow speed different when gears is down (or A/T AoA hold).
Sim: Review all replay signals.
Sim: Only send properties over MP when they change, will save up property space.
Sim: Make nav panel functional.
Sim: After exiting transonic the altitude hold is recomputed. 
Sim: To disengage A/P to mode 0 press switch on stick or pull fuse (will also disengage A/T).
Sim: OPT FIX button pressed will make the current destination selected moved to right under the aircraft at push time. (datapanel rensa will set it back to what was programmed)
Sim: Pitot depend on AC power.
Sim: Some systems should get DC power directly from batt., some only when main power switch is on. Check diagram.
Sim: The A/P for glideslope is not very reliable, fix.
Sim: Fix that when changing airport location, battery gets drained, and therefore gives master warning for a while after startup.
Sim: Make so that flares cannot be used after aircraft has crashed.
Sim: Check terrain warning for when gears is down/landing mode in manual. (its now set to gears down detect)
Sim: Using data panel an extra bingo fuel warning can be added. % above standard warning is entered. Landing clears it, so does pressing master warning silence. (think its made, dont remember)
Sim: Inertial navigation system.
Arms: Make the weapon mode dial operational: simulated mode, operational mode and reduced mode. In DAP, burst number for OP can be entered.
Arms: RB99 will be rail launched if sitting on a rail instead of always dropped.
Arms: Be able to notch the rb71 again.
Arms: Make weapons hit all nearby targets.
Arms: Make m71 bombs not require a target.
Arms: Set 4 M71 to fire in ripple at each trigger press.
Arms: Home on jam for missiles.
Effect: Rembrandt landing lightcone.
Effect: Make pilot G-loc/die due to G-forces.
Effect: Make tires burst if too high speed with parking brakes.
Effect: Replace beacon, landing and strobe lights with procedural lights in ALS.
Effect: Afterburner should be more white at night.
Sound: More annunciater warnings and other sounds. (transonic/Vne is same signal)
Sound: Adjust the volume of the explosion of nearby missile, depending on distance.
Sound: Rework how missile buzz and growl works.
Sound: Sound from wind hitting the gears when extended.
Radar: Make rb71 notchable again, by introducing 3 diff painted properties instead of one.
Radar: Make ECM jamming.
Radar: Make other planes notice when radar is off. (semi done, think F15, mig21 and mirage does it)
HUD: All track semi circles and semi box should have a line in them. (might degrade performance)
HUD: Fix that HUD selects diamond_node, not radar logic, so HUD can be turned off in external view.
HUD: When DME are enabled at the same time as ILS with glideslope, the distance scale make the ILS view confusing.
HUD: Make crossing out of hud when armament not ready to fire and trigger is pressed.
HUD: Slave-SI centers the landing guide. And hides the attitude ind. ILS needles. (only AJ variants)
HUD: Altitude scale should only be shown when engine is running due to it need AC power. (pitot-static needs AC?)
HUD: Make option: realistic or easy-readable alt scale (as before).
HUD: Radar alt in alt scale, can move outside clip bounds. fix?
HUD: When should distance scale line not be shown, but distance still?
HUD: In OPT mode, the sink rate is only at low altitudes, before that its 1:20.
TI: Show lat/lon grid in menu UDAT.
TI: Select self.
TI: When inertial navigation is not ready and GPS is off, don't show moving map.
TI: Make radar limit on SVY. (first radar should be changed to scan and beam be more vertically narrow)
TI: Add missiles to SVY.
TI: Waypoint info should show ETA to next waypoint. And seperate infobox for full ETA.
TI: Make route info with overall ETA.
TI: Clear pylon selection.
TI: Another navigation mode is RR (steer order from radar) or DL (STRILL). Not sure what how they work.
TI: In menu SYST, button 'LB'/'LS'. Steer order first to tangent point.
TI: Auto switching to next steerpoint happens when less than 3Km from current, and distance increasing. From last in mission it will switch to first in RTB. From last in RTB it will switch to base and select 'L'.
TI: Routes can have target steerpoints (Mxx/Txx).
TI: Edit, append or insert steerpoint could maybe test if click on airport, if so then add.
TI: Edit polygon and MMAN should auto move cursor to TI.
TI: MSDA map should be north oriented (at least when MMAN is on).
TI: Slew cursor using a dialog touchpad.
TI: Menu CONF-READDATA should show a static page.
MI: Implement radar sweep.
MI: Improve mark event [X3]
MI: Improve BIT test. [X1]
MI: Make TNF to stop/start inertial nav.
MI: DLZ indicator.
CI: Memory button, for freezing image.
CI: Slew cursor.
Doc: Thorsten Renk suggested to make a PDF manual. ETA. before 2019.
Control: overhaul rudder trim.
DAP: Input TACAN with REG/STR.
DAP: Edit steerpoint type to target.
TI: Prevent steerpoint selection through infobox, its a confusing UI elsewise.
TI: When cursor not active on TI, a shadow cursor is shown following the target cursor.
TI: RB99 telemetry should show IDLE, SCAN or LOCK when not fired.
DAP: Show sign of input at leftmost char always.
TI: Run different through plans when drawing them on canvas.
TI: In menu WEAP between the two middle edge buttons at bottom, its should say AK 120. For 120 ammo left.
Radar: Fix carrier in HUD/CI/TI/MI proper due to changes in radar getPolar etc. (PRIORITY!!)
Effect: Ambient occlusion map need to be baked again, many parts are too occluded.
Sound: Knobs for pylon and master-arm has no sound, fix.
Model: The nosegear well, has gap between it and fuselage.
Model: The frontpanel tap is misaligned.
Model: The A/P pushbuttons can still be hard to see.
Animation: The bypass handle should not stay up for long.
Model: The JA has a chronometer right of fuel gauge.
Sim: Make sure ram air only supplies when AC supply is set to generator
Test: Engine starter should be hold in for 30 secs before quiting test, not instantly.
Test: Testing from TI.
Test: Shut down also some indicators during testing.
Test: Individual tests with test knob.
Model: Nav panel should be scaled to be just as wide as test panel.
Animation: Make more use of knob animation: Radio, HUD brightness, Altimeters, MI brightness.
Sim: AC should just blow air, not keep temperature.
DAP: Minneslista JA37 has some DAP addresses. Make.
Sim: Make use of button SNABBRESN (reinit gyro, max 3 mins, light on during).
Model: Oxygen switch was special.
Model: In JA the 2 gauges on right panel sat in a panel.
Arms: When electrical power is off, the RB24J should not be able to cool.
Arms: Pickle delay.
Arms: Auto LOAL. Lock on after launch.
Arms: IR lock before launch should also check terrain occlusion.
Arms: The auto pattern scan should not jump from bottom to top.
Radar: Openradar has no roll and heading. Fix radar to handle that.
Arms: Narrow scan pattern for dogfighting. (narrow yaw, mid to high pitch.)
Arms: Should seeker position be shown in MI and HUD for non IR? (lean towards no)
HUD: Do not show rb99 seeker diamond. (not sure if I haven't fixed)
TI: When display is not showing image, backup menu is in effect, which hard-coded functions for the buttons.
DAP: When inputing to TI, it remembers the last sign used. Not sure if should fix or not.
GUI: Conditions on tooltips stopped working in 2018.1.1, if it does not get fixed, remove em all.
Sim: Startup with engines on, should have inertial navigation ready. (maybe altimeter should be preset too)
TI: Prioritize showing only 10 FF/LV points.
Effect: Fix that with engine off, the wind can drive the fan which will produce smoke.
TI: Be able to set steerorder to LV or FF points.
TI: Cursor should be able to select and then relocate a FF or LV point in MSDA menu.
Radar: RCS takes a moment to kick in apparently. Might be fixed.
Radar: No voice warning of incoming missiles. Fix.
Sim: At relocation: ja37.nas line 813 Nasal runtime error: setprop() passed a NaN: setprop("/environment/aircraft-effects/fog-inside", me.fogNormInside);










List of un-authentic systems, most scheduled for removal/change at some point
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Automatic landing mode selection in AJ was really selected manual like in the JA.
Speedbrake on JA-37Di and AJS-37 were welded shut. Was only working on AJ-37 of these variants.
Distance to selected radar echo was next to distance scale where ammo is now, not next to the echo. (was ammo count even in HUD?) If line is there, the number is line length.
Electronic map should not work, before inertial navigation has finished initializing, or GPS is on.
The FPI in HUD was really limited to +- 7.5 degs lateral.
In the orig plane the HUD decimal delimiter is ',' not '.'.
VOR, ADF navigation, the real did not have this.
Carrier operations. Use keys Shift-L (hold for 10 seconds), Shift-C and L. Only work on carriers. Was not on the real.
Aerobatic smoke, the real probably didn't have.
TI: Delete, append or insert steerpoint should really be controlled from radar stick, not be part of TI menu.
TI: OPT should really be a button on the flightstick, not be part of TI menu.
In the real nav. panel you could select between 4 bases plus STRILL supplied base. Each could have A & B return-to-base plans. So that makes up to 10 RTB plans, instead of the current 2.
The real Viggen displays had 2 cursors; lock-cursor and TIM-cursor. The flightgear Viggen has combined it into 1 cursor.



Bugs:
--------------
Control: {Pinto} Pitch damper does fast violent oscillations at 36000ft M2.25+ without droptank.
GUI: The performance monitor can duplicate itself when selecting airport. [reproduced]
HUD: In landing mode, commanded altitude lines can be confused with ILS guidance.
HUD: When autostarting is in progress, the HUD will switch off for a fraction of a second sometimes when loading stores. (due to stores mass moving the aircraft a bit and external power then gets disconnected.).
HUD: When the altitude difference to a track is much larger than the horizontal distance, the track positions are off.
HUD: {JazzTp} When FG HUD is in 2nd or 3rd mode, it does not go away when switching to custom. [reproduced]
Model: CTRL-X in HUD view will not zoom to correct level.
Model: AJ Droptank indicator should really be a steerpoint indicator.
Model: In FG 2.12 radar screen does not work as it should. (no canvas replacement)
Model: All shader use of <use> does not work over MP.
Sim: Find out why cannon and sidewinder fire randomly after instant replay.
Sim: If HoT (/sim/multiplay/hot) is enabled, geo reports wrong ground elevation at a AI/MP aircraft location.
Sim: Missiles do not show when using FG 3.0, in FG 3.1+ they work fine. [reproduced]
Sim: Sometimes when exploding, the sim freezes, typically at redout. [was bug in jsbsim, fixed in 2016.1]
Sim: The auto-pilot can be bank unstable when auto-coordination is turned on.
Sim: When Bombable 4.5 is installed redout and blackout might not work properly. [related to certain Bombable settings I think]
Sim: When relocating or pausing, autostart might fail. [reproduced]
Sim: {JazzTP} Replay did not replay explosion.
Sim: {Pinto} After fire M70, and reload, they will fire again. [might be fixed]
Sim: {Pinto} Has experienced that 2 engine directories were created under engines. That leads to error in performance monitor.
Sound: If at the end of non-looped replay view mode is fly-by-view, sounds will continue looping. [not reproduced]
Effect: Firing many M70 rockets in quick succession will make FG crash. [Probably fixed]
Sim: A/T at high alpha does not work for Pinto, too high alpha. (3k ft, 30% fuel, no reverse)



Issues with FG:
---------------
Effect: Rembrandt does not make the engine flame lit enough, unless diffuse and ambient is increased also.


Compatible version with FG 2.6 (on hold, as it crashes when loading ja37)
------------------------------
Smaller textures
Less polygons
Less particle effects
No radar (done)
No custom HUD (done)
Default FG HUD (done)


Livery work
-----------
Model: Improve the 01     eastern livery.
Model: Improve the 79-F21 ferris
Model: Improve the 01-F21 viking livery.
Model: Improve the 31-F17 grey livery.
Model: Improve the 32-F16 grey livery.
Model: Improve the 32-F16 Blå Petter livery. (Blue Peter)
Model: Improve the 59-F16 grey livery.
Model: Improve the 61-F18 strike camo livery.
Model: Improve the 61-F18 desert camo livery.
Model: Improve the 61-F18 nevada camo livery.
Model: Improve the 57-F21 red 'ghost' livery. (sure its not F10?)
Model: Improve the 46-F04 unknown export livery - Great lake monster.
Model: Improve the 02-F21 swedish sun livery.
Model: Improve the Flightgear livery.
Model: Improve the 11-F16 black/grey camo livery.
Model: Improve the 12-F04 black and gold livery.
Model: Improve the 48-F21 finnish export livery. (Akktu Stakki - Lonely Wolf)


Require more data:
------------------
Aero: Detailed axial coefficients.
Aero: Mass distribution.
Aero: Detailed high speed aerodynamics.